<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic">
<topic id="aoc-day-02">
   <title>Day 02</title>
   <shortdesc>
      <xref scope="external" href="https://adventofcode.com/2024/day/2">Problem statement on the web</xref>.</shortdesc>
   <body/>
   <topic id="aoc-day-02-1">
      <title>Day 02, part 1</title>
      <body>
         <section>
            <title>Discussion</title>
            <p>Another line-by-line set of data. I think this time I'll try recursion.
							I'll call a template on a line, call an isSafe function on that line's sequence, adding 1 or not to the safe-levels
							variable, which I'll carry as a parameter to the recursive iteration on line+next until there's no +next values left.
							The isSafe function checks first if starts off ascending or descending then evaluates that each subsequent interval meets the criteria.</p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <title>Solution</title>
            <p>See formatted solution code on GitHub:
		<xref scope="external"
                     href="https://github.com/arkadianriver/AoC-2024/blob/main/src/xsl/day-02.xsl#L94">solution-p1, line 94</xref>.</p>
            <p>See formatted solution code on GitHub:
		<xref scope="external"
                     href="https://github.com/arkadianriver/AoC-2024/blob/main/src/xsl/day-02.xsl#L115">check-levels-p1, line 115</xref>.</p>
            <p>See formatted solution code on GitHub:
		<xref scope="external"
                     href="https://github.com/arkadianriver/AoC-2024/blob/main/src/xsl/day-02.xsl#L139">gar:level-increment-p1, line 139</xref>.</p>
            <p>
               <b>Solution to the test data set</b>
            </p>
            <codeblock>2</codeblock>
            <p>
               <b>Solution to the actual data set</b>
            </p>
            <codeblock>472</codeblock>
         </section>
      </body>
   </topic>
   <topic id="aoc-day-02-2">
      <title>Day 02, part 2</title>
      <body>
         <section>
            <title>Discussion</title>
            <p>Looks like I just need to copy the <codeph>solution</codeph> template, the recursive <codeph>check-levels</codeph>
							template, and change the <codeph>gar:safe-increment()</codeph> function. I'm thinking I could
							save the previous index as I progress down the sequence, and when a condition against the next index fails, try again
							using the previous index, and if that succeeds, drop the _current_ index and move on. But if it fails,
							drop the _next_ index to see if it succeeds. If it does, move on, or else fail altogether.
							one fails. I think.
							Let's have at it.</p>
            <p>Well, after struggling through it, I ended up checking how Daniel Persson solved it and it looks like he had
							a time with it, too. Like he did, I decided to remove each index in sequence and test the sub-sequence (after making
							sure the full sequence didn't already work by indexing at 0), using the <codeph>some in .. satisfies</codeph> to
							exit upon success.
							</p>
         </section>
         <section>
            <title>Solution</title>
            <p>See formatted solution code on GitHub:
		<xref scope="external"
                     href="https://github.com/arkadianriver/AoC-2024/blob/main/src/xsl/day-02.xsl#L203">gar:level-increment-p2, line 203</xref>.</p>
            <p>
               <b>Solution to the test data set</b>
            </p>
            <codeblock>4</codeblock>
            <p>
               <b>Solution to the actual data set</b>
            </p>
            <codeblock>520</codeblock>
         </section>
      </body>
   </topic>
</topic>
